# SDL_SetEventFilter

Set up a filter to process all events before they are added to the internal event queue.

## Header File

Defined in [<SDL3/SDL_events.h>](https://github.com/libsdl-org/SDL/blob/main/include/SDL3/SDL_events.h)

## Syntax

```c
void SDL_SetEventFilter(SDL_EventFilter filter, void *userdata);
```

## Function Parameters

|                                    |              |                                           |
| ---------------------------------- | ------------ | ----------------------------------------- |
| [SDL_EventFilter](SDL_EventFilter) | **filter**   | a function to call when an event happens. |
| void *                             | **userdata** | a pointer that is passed to `filter`.     |

## Remarks

If you just want to see events without modifying them or preventing them
from being queued, you should use [SDL_AddEventWatch](SDL_AddEventWatch)()
instead.

If the filter function returns true when called, then the event will be
added to the internal queue. If it returns false, then the event will be
dropped from the queue, but the internal state will still be updated. This
allows selective filtering of dynamically arriving events.

**WARNING**: Be very careful of what you do in the event filter function,
as it may run in a different thread! The exception is handling of
[SDL_EVENT_WINDOW_EXPOSED](SDL_EVENT_WINDOW_EXPOSED), which is guaranteed
to be sent from the OS on the main thread and you are expected to redraw
your window in response to this event.

On platforms that support it, if the quit event is generated by an
interrupt signal (e.g. pressing Ctrl-C), it will be delivered to the
application at the next event poll.

Note: Disabled events never make it to the event filter function; see
[SDL_SetEventEnabled](SDL_SetEventEnabled)().

Note: Events pushed onto the queue with [SDL_PushEvent](SDL_PushEvent)()
get passed through the event filter, but events pushed onto the queue with
[SDL_PeepEvents](SDL_PeepEvents)() do not.

## Thread Safety

It is safe to call this function from any thread.

## Version

This function is available since SDL 3.2.0.

## See Also

- [SDL_AddEventWatch](SDL_AddEventWatch)
- [SDL_SetEventEnabled](SDL_SetEventEnabled)
- [SDL_GetEventFilter](SDL_GetEventFilter)
- [SDL_PeepEvents](SDL_PeepEvents)
- [SDL_PushEvent](SDL_PushEvent)

----
[CategoryAPI](CategoryAPI), [CategoryAPIFunction](CategoryAPIFunction), [CategoryEvents](CategoryEvents)

